---
layout: post
title: "Smoke, mirrors and security"
date: 2002-07-16 15:04
comments: false
categories: security
---

There's this common misconception among Americans that the actions of the US
Government since September 11th have had anything to do with the security of
the common populace. This is a gross mistake. As someone who has been a
practitioner of risk management and mitigation in physical, electronic and
social mechanisms, much of what I see is nothing but a sham, largely created
to distract people from the real problems.

Take airports. The security at airports continues to be abysmal at best,
insulting in the worst, and misleading in all actuality. I know people who
have boarded plans without photo ID through Dulles International Aiport (IAD)
in Washington, DC, and people who are prototypical passengers that would not
be suspicious (this is not race based, but behavioral) who are harassed to no
end, repeatedly. Why? Not because they are suspicious, but because they were
convenient. People are somehow "comforted" by seeing people searched, even if
those people are not the ones who could potentially present a security risk.

This is typified by the either intentional or negligent avoidance of dealing
with private jets (otherwise known as "political supports"), cargo transports,
and other vectors for attacks that are substantially more effective. Why
weren't they dealt with? Because they're not visible to the "average" person,
yet they represent the actual targets that an intelligent terrorist would go
after. We've been fortunate to not have been targeted by an overly intelligent
and concerted effort, just a rather clumsy one so far.

This is also typified in the methodology of Federal agencies in Washington, DC
that I work with on a daily basis. Many have erected all sorts of physical
barriers, but ignore thousands of other vectors that are exposed. Again, lots
of smoke, no fire. The effective reduction of risk is a difficult job, and
requires enormous intellectual resources --- not necessarily monetary
resources. Much of the current government approaches are focused on spending
money --- often just to line pockets of supporters or constituents --- rather
than the examination of risks strategies.

As I said, risks can not be eliminated, but can only be mitigated, reduced and
managed. I have addressed too many people involved in the "war on terrorism"
who feel that there is a 100% solution out there, when that is the fatal flaw.
The assumption of perfection creates it's own enormous risk. Only when we
understands the risks can be manage them.

Today, we are no more safe than we were September 10th due to anything the
government has done, but we have lost countless liberties that will be
difficult to regain. Any increase in security is largely due to the attention
of the American people, not the government.
